welcome to slash forward
in this episode we're going to examine
an early horror comedy by schlockmeister
roger corman
creature from the haunted sea if you
have any interest in slathering yourself
with seaweed to hunt for lost cuban gold
consider subscribing for more
information
let's get to it we open on a shoe shine
of some white
canvas kids after which some swarthy men
roll up and start shooting folks
requiring secret agent xk150 to pull
some evasive maneuvers and demonstrate
his mastery of the art of disguise
having established his proficiency at
sleuthing we watch him as he meets an
ally spy in xk-120 at his secret
rendezvous he verifies he's heading out
for a job in cuba
then they share a professional goodbye
kiss and he's on his way
through the magic of animatics we learn
the non-communist government of cuba
wants to smuggle out some of their
gold so they have money to rebuild after
they counter coup and regain control of
the island from castro they bring the
gold to the docks where they've hired a
crew of scumbag smugglers to help them
out
xk150 is among their rank having gone
undercover and earned their
trust and the group of criminals is led
by lorenzo a career criminologist who
intends to leverage this opportunity to
steal the gold and they're sharing the
boat with a crew of government agents
crooks seamen and a goon who
communicates mostly
through animal noises
which was the absolute height of comedy
for the time lorenzo quickly realizes
the boat is filled with too many damn
cubans and he needs to thin them out to
enact their plan so he manufactures the
idea of a sea monster to mask his murder
unbeknownst to him an actual sea monster
is getting in on that action and
claiming additional victims
he hopes to compel them to change course
but the general finds the thought of a
monster laughable
but they do eventually agree to redirect
to puerto rico
along the way they're approached by a
boat of unknown origin so they play it
cool
by having maribel sing a little ditty as
one does
whilst yachting these men confirm they
are searching for the stolen gold
so they let them fully ensnare
themselves in the trap before unloading
something they're surprisingly not
bothered by at all even when pete sprays
in close proximity to the other
passengers
none of whom take a bullet which is by
sheer luck when that nasty business is
over
xk150 attempts to work maribel and turn
her into an asset but she's perfectly
happy with her life of carefree
criminality
getting close to an uninhabited island
lorenzo puts out the call to sink the
boat so they can pitch the gold
and they steer into some rocks knocking
the ship about in a way that only
affects cubans
pretty much the perfect scenario they
make it to shore
mostly with the creature taking his or
her
tribute they set up camp and jack is
sent to an adjacent island for a fishing
boat in scuba gear
new plan is to hide the gold on the
ocean floor causing the cubans to give
up and leave
giving the boys an opportunity to come
back for it later unfortunately as they
prepare their first excursion they learn
the soldiers are actually frogmen
and experienced divers so they're forced
to thin them up a bit more
clawing any who separate from the group
with gardening tools despite this the
general insists on continuing the search
now they dive only with spearguns which
doesn't deter lorenzo from his task he
again descends upon a lone cuban
and this time hoists his thong clean up
his crack until dead but then they lose
jack to the creature despondent about
their losses the leaders of both groups
decide to cut and run
but first one final attack this one
savage as
hell as the creature now reveals its
full ketulian glory
in full daylight for all the sea and
wades through the group
tearing up all the survivors with its
vicious claws and other things
in the end only xk-150 and his jungle
mistress survived the horrifying
onslaught
what a funny delight there actually were
some generally humorous aspects to this
movie
it mostly just suffers as do many of
these bee movies from a bunch of
extraneous scenes that just don't really
need to be there
if you enjoyed the video i'd love for
you to become a part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching